---
title: 'Productivity in the time of COVID-19'
date: 2020-04-13
permalink: /posts/2020/04/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - covid-19
  - productivity
---

We're living in surreal times. The nature and scale of the problem presented by COVID-19 is unprecendented in most of our lifetimes and one of the biggest worries everyone I know is dealing with is "How do I stay productive in all this craziness?"

Personally, I realize with some hindsight that the biggest mistake on my part in this whole scenario has been a lack of planning. I've done a horrible job of keeping my expectations realistic with respect to what I can actually achieve with the additional time I have at hand thanks to being at home 24x7. Realistically speaking, not much has changed in terms of work load. All we have extra now is the time spent each week on commute. So how can any realistic to-do list suddenly include books on evolution you've been meaning to read for over a year or the statistical theory course you just wish you had more time to finish or even the musical instrument you've been planning on learning to play for half a decade?

Here's my new mantra: 

======

Keep calm, and Pomodoro.

======

That's right. The only productivity technique I have used successfully to improve my day to day work in all this madness is the TomatoTimer technique that breaks your workday into chunks of 25 minute work sessions followed by short breaks and repeat. This nifty little approach has never failed me in the past but somehow, it has been even more of a savior in the middle of this pandemic. All you need to do is break your day into 2 or 3 distinct activities like work, skill development, hobby and then allocate a certain number of Tomato work sessions to each. That's all you need to keep track of at any given time during the day. Easy decision making:

Am I in the middle of work session? 
	If yes, do the activity at hand. 
	If not, am I done with all the TomatoTargets for today? 
		If yes, rejoice, you can go back to your Twitter or Instagram feed, or your glass of wine and latest trendy Netflix series, as the case may be. 
		If not, finish your break and start a work session soon.

Fin.

------